 For NLG you have two ways - One is template based and the other is deep learning based | For Template based NLG - need to use API's like dialogflow (Dialogflow detects intent of the text and depending on the intents , appropriate responses are coded ). Example could be chatbots for HR queries
deep learning based NLG systems are mostly in research state , even though some results are definitely possible , using them in production might be risky as they are not mature enough
the other option is to use commercial NLG systems like , I feel these commercial NLG systems are also in initial development state . They don't give developer licenses yet, only give licenses to corporate clients for testing only. Few commercial NLG systems are listed below
Arria NLG PLC is believed to be one of the global leaders in NLG technologies and tools and can boast the most advanced NLG engine and reports generated by NLG narratives. The company has patented NLG technologies available for use via Arria NLG platform.
AX Semantics: offers eCommerce, journalistic and data reporting (e.g. BI or financial reporting) NLG services for over 100 languages. It is a developer-friendly product that uses AI and machine learning to train the platform’s NLP engine.
Wordsmith by Automated Insights is an NLG engine that works chiefly in the sphere of advanced template-based approaches. It allows users to convert data into text in any format or scale. Wordsmith also provides a plethora of language options for data conversion.
and commercial NLG systems give a lot of hype and promises , but execution in real world scenarios will be different then what is promised
Questions - 1. what is the scope - do you have any use case in mind ? (asking this because in NLG, applications and features vary according to the type of use case and datasets available) |
NLP is a fairly matured subject with lot of open source work and lot of results to show, but NLG is a fairly new area and very little actual real world results to show other than academic papers
these commercial NLG systems might work, but it would very much be dependant on a specific type of industry or any other specific requirement , they might not generalise well to other real world use cases
